RoF overview edits DOC-1392 (#2218)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/databases/redis-on-flash/_index.md

    /rs/databases/redis-flash/
]
---

> Redis on Flash (RoF) offers users of Redis Enterprise the unique ability to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redis on Flash (RoF) offers Redis Enterprise users the unique ability to
```

have large Redis databases but at significant cost savings. Where
standard Redis databases must all be in RAM, Redis on Flash enables your databases to span both RAM and dedicated flash memory in the form of SSDs (solid state drives).

Distributing data between RAM and flash memory keeps your frequently used data accessible in RAM, and values you need less often in flash memory. Since flash memory usually comes with more storage space and less cost than RAM, this can result in significant savings for large datasets.

Just like all-RAM databases, RoF is compatible with existing Redis applications. Databases that employ RoF are identical to all-RAM Redis Enterprise Software databases in characteristics and features.

Redis on Flash is also supported on [Redis Cloud]({{<relref "/rc/">}}) and [Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes]({{<relref "/rs/">}}).

## Flash memory

Implementing Redis on Flash requires preplanning around memory and sizing. Considerations and requirements for Redis on Flash include:

> - Flash memory must be locally attached (as opposed to network attached)

Reviewer 2: Missing a "." in the end.

> - Flash memory must be dedicated to RoF and not shared with other parts of the database (e.g. durability, binaries, persistence, ect.).

Reviewer 2: while this is not really a must, it's highly recommended. So maybe it's best to write something like "It's highly recommended to have a dedicated drive for RoF".

> - Flash memory must be dedicated to RoF and not shared with other parts of the database (e.g. durability, binaries, persistence, ect.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Flash memory must be dedicated to RoF and not shared with other parts of the database, such as durability, binaries, or persistence.
```

- For the best performance, the SSDs should be NVMe based.

> Flash memory can be SATA or NVMe based storage devices. However, we recommend NVMe for the best performance.

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need both of those lines since they seem to say the same thing.

{{<note>}} The Redis Enterprise Software database persistent and ephemeral storage should be on different disks, either local or attached. {{</note>}}

> Once these requirements are met, both Redis on Flash databases and
> all-RAM databases can be created and managed in the same cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once these requirements are met, you can create and manage both Redis on Flash databases and
all-RAM databases in the same cluster.
```

> When you begin planning the deployment of Redis on Flash in Production,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you begin planning the deployment of Redis on Flash in production,
```

we recommend working closely with the Redis technical team for
sizing and performance tuning.

### Cloud environments

> When running on a cloud environment:  - flash memory should be on the ephemeral SSDs of the cloud instance
> - persistent database storage should be network attached, (e.g AWS EBS. For AWS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running in a cloud environment: 
- Flash memory is on the ephemeral SSDs of the cloud instance.
- Persistent database storage needs to be network attached (for example, AWS EBS for AWS).
```

{{<note>}}
We specifically recommend "[Storage Optimized I3 - High I/O Instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/#storage-optimized)" because of the performance of NVMe for flash memory. {{</note>}}

### On-premises environments

> When you begin planning the deployment of Redis on Flash in Production, we recommend working closely with the Redis technical team for sizing and performance tuning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you begin planning the deployment of Redis on Flash in production, we recommend working closely with the Redis technical team for sizing and performance tuning.
```

On-premises environments support more deployment options than other environments such as:

- Using the SpeedDB storage engine instead of the default RocksDB
- Using Active-Active distributed databases
- Using supported modules
  - [RediSearch]({{< relref "/modules/redisearch/_index.md" >}})
  - [RedisJSON]({{< relref "/modules/redisjson/_index.md" >}})
  - [RedisTimeSeries]({{< relref "modules/redistimeseries/_index.md" >}})
  - [RedisBloom]({{< relref "/modules/redisbloom/_index.md" >}})

{{<warning>}} Redis on Flash is not supported running on network attached storage (NAS), storage area network (SAN), or with local HDD drives. {{</warning>}}

## Where is my data?

When using Redis on Flash, RAM storage holds:
- All keys (names)
- Key indexes
- Dictionaries
- Hot data (working set)

All data is accessed through RAM. If a value in flash memory is accessed, it becomes part of the working set and is moved to RAM. These values are referred to as “hot data”.

Inactive or infrequently accessed data is referred to as “warm data” and stored in flash memory. When more space is needed in RAM, warm data is moved from RAM to flash storage.

> {{<note>}} When using Redis on Flash with RediSearch, it’s important to note that RedisSearch indexes are also stored in RAM.{{</note>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<note>}} When using Redis on Flash with RediSearch, it’s important to note that RediSearch indexes are also stored in RAM.{{</note>}}
```

## RAM to Flash ratio

You can easily configure or tune the ratio of RAM-to-Flash for each database independently, optimizing performance for your specific use case. This is an online operation requiring no downtime for your database.

The RAM size cannot be smaller than 10% or larger than 60% of the total memory. We recommend you keep at least 20% of all values in RAM.

## Use cases
The benefits associated with Redis on Flash are dependent on the use case.

Redis on Flash is ideal when your:

- working set is significantly smaller than your dataset

> - average keys size is smaller than average value size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- average key size is smaller than average value size
```

- most recent data is the most frequently used

Redis on Flash is not recommended for:

> - Long keys names (all key names are stored in RAM)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Long key names (all key names are stored in RAM)
```

## Where is my data?

When using Redis on Flash, RAM storage holds:
- All keys (names)
- Key indexes
- Dictionaries
- Hot data (working set)

All data is accessed through RAM. If a value in flash memory is accessed, it becomes part of the working set and is moved to RAM. These values are referred to as “hot data”.

Inactive or infrequently accessed data is referred to as “warm data” and stored in flash memory. When more space is needed in RAM, warm data is moved from RAM to flash storage.

{{<note>}} When using Redis on Flash with RediSearch, it’s important to note that RediSearch indexes are also stored in RAM.{{</note>}}

## RAM to Flash ratio

You can easily configure or tune the ratio of RAM-to-Flash for each database independently, optimizing performance for your specific use case. This is an online operation requiring no downtime for your database.

The RAM size cannot be smaller than 10% or larger than 60% of the total memory. We recommend you keep at least 20% of all values in RAM.

## Flash memory

Implementing Redis on Flash requires preplanning around memory and sizing. Considerations and requirements for Redis on Flash include:

> - Flash memory must be locally attached (as opposed to network attached)

Author: ```suggestion
- Flash memory must be locally attached (as opposed to network attached.
```
